Food outlets have increased prices of packets of lunch, pastries and other bakery products ? passing on the extra taxes to unsuspecting consumers and thereby sending living costs higher. In line with the 2016 Budget proposals, the Government from January 1 doubled the Nation Building Tax (NBT) from 2% to 4% and increased other taxes also.From this week, the price of a packet of rice was increased by about Rs. 30 in most takeaway outlets while most pastries and confectionary products were increased by Rs. 5. Bakery Owners? Association, President N.K. Jayawardena said they were passing on the NBT increase to the customers. He said there were no controlled prices for cooked and most bakery items and therefore they could fix their own prices. He said even the price of a loaf of bread might be increased.Mr. Jayawardena said they had talks with Finance Minister Ravi Karunanyake on this issue and he has promised some relief. ?Till this relief comes, the bakers cannot give relief to the customers.?
Within hours of the Sunday Times hitting the streets last week, the state press asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) about the former British Prime Minister, Tony Blair?s visit to Sri Lanka and if he was to play any role in Sri Lanka?s reconciliation process. Not surprisingly, the state press misquoted the MFA spokesperson. This is what happens when one tries to be more loyal than the king.Interesting indeed, it now comes to light that the subject of foreign affairs is handled by different arms of the Government and is not the sole prerogative of the MFA. One might say that is nothing new and one does not seem to be knowing what the other is doing.Mr. Blair had a near hour long meeting on the subject of reconciliation and related issues with the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) leader and Opposition Leader Rajavarothayam Sampanthan. The meeting was arranged not by the MFA, but ?higher ups?. They talked about the ?Sri Lankan case? and even made comparisons to Northern Ireland, Mr. Blair?s one claim to fame.So, why this haste to feign ignorance of the controversial ex-British PM?s visit. ?me kauda; mokada karanne? (Who is this? What?s he doing) was a political slogan made famous to promote ex-President R. Premadasa once upon a time. It seems apt for the secretive Tony Blair, too, these days.Read More From The Cafe Spectator Column
The Sri Lankan government is to present a 3-year economic development plan next month with the assistance of a team of local economic experts, senior officials and Harvard University academics, official sources revealed on Monday  This was an outcome of the 2-day economic forum concluded last Friday in Colombo, a senior official said.   The proposed Euromoney investment conference will also be held in Colombo soon but dates for the meeting is yet to be finalized.   In the meantime Sri Lanka has also invited to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.  The team will be led by Prime Minister Ranil Wickeremasinghe and include Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake and International Development Minister Malik Samarawickrema. (Bandula)
Two individuals who led a recent protest over the Meetotamulla garbage dump site, have been arrested, the Police said.Attorney-at-Law Nuwan Bopage and another person have been arrested and are expected to be produced before the Colombo Magistrate's court.
Supreme Court has  refused  leave to proceed in a Fundamental Rights petition filed by Justice Sarath de Abrew against his recent indictment at the Colombo High Court.The Attorney General indicted Sarath de Abrew at the Colombo High Court on two counts on committing grave sexual abuse, under Section 365 (B) of the Penal Code.Through his petition, Abrew said that the Attorney General acted arbitrarily and did not consider statements of several witnesses before filing the indictment.However, the Supreme Court today rejected Abrew's argument, claiming that the AG did not act arbitrarily.Abrew has been summoned by the Colombo High Court tomorrow.
Sri Lanka is to go ahead with a $1.4 billion Chinese-backed real estate project after some changes to its terms, a minister said on Tuesday, signalling readiness to accept more Chinese investment in the face of a balance-of-payment crisis.President Maithripala Sirisena's new government suspended the project, which includes apartments, shopping malls, a water sports area, a golf course, hotels and marinas next to Colombo's main port, in March last year citing various irregularities including a lack of proper permits and approvals."The port city will be started. We will down-size the proposed land. We have to sign the deal again for the better future of the country," Sujeewa Senasinghe, junior international trade minister, told reporters. He said the irregularities were being addressed in a review of the project.The new government is trying to speed up procedures for foreign direct investment and liberalising foreign exchange market to attract more dollar inflows to face a balance-of-payments crisis. It is also seeking an IMF loan.The Sri Lankan company CHEC Port City Colombo (Pvt) Ltd, which is handling the project for Chinese investor, China Communications Construction Co Ltd (CCCC), signed the original deal under the then government of the China-friendly former leader Mahinda Rajapaksa. The project was initiated by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2014 and was emblematic of China's strategy of developing a maritime Silk Road from Asia to Europe.But it has alarmed Sri Lanka's big neighbour, India, which is wary of China's growing influence in the Indian Ocean, especially after visits to Sri Lanka by two Chinese submarines in 2014.India sees the project as a threat in its backyard and has been sympathetic to Sirisena's reformist rule. Liang Thow Ming, chief sales and marketing officer of CHEC Port City Colombo confirmed that discussions were going on with the government to get the project back on track."We're both keen to come to a resolution," he told Reuters. The Sri Lankan government said in September it would be exposed to the risk of claims from the Chinese investor if the government failed to obtain approvals needed by the project within two months.CCCC had estimated when the project was suspended in March that the shutdown would result in losses of more than $380,000 a day.The project plot is a fenced-off tract of boulders dumped by what used to be a sandy beach.(Reuters)
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe will attend the World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting - 2016 slated to be held at Davos, Switzerland from January 20 to 23. This is the first time Sri Lanka has been invited to attend the annual meeting of the WEF, which has been held for over 40 years.     According to the Government information department, the invitations are extended only for selected heads of governmentheads of states, in addition to other business and industry partners. Over 50 delegates including heads of governments, ministers involved in the subject of economic affairs, leaders of international financial institutions including the hierarchy of the World Bank will attend.     Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrema and Finance and Planning Minister Ravi Karunanayake will accompany the Prime Minister. The Annual Forum in Davos-Klosters remains the foremost creative force for engaging the world's top leaders in collaborative activities focused on shaping the global, regional and industry agendas.     This year's theme of the meeting is "Mastering the Fourth Industrial Revolution".     Some of the other dignitaries and prominent personalities who have been invited include Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau, UN High Commissioner of Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al-Hussein, Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif, and Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.The forum was founded in 1971 by Kalus Schwab, a German born business professor at the University of Geneva. First named the 'European Management Forum', it changed its name to the 'World Economic Forum' in 1987' and sought to broaden its vision to include providing a platform to resolving international conflicts.     Events in 1973, including the collapse of the Bretton Woods fixed exchange rate mechanism and Arab-Israeli war saw the annual meeting expand its focus from management economic and social issues and for the first time political leaders were invited to the annual meeting in January 1974.     In 2006 the foundation opened regional offices in Beijing and New York city.
Seven Ambassadors and a High Commissioner presented credentials to President Maithripala Sirisena at the President?s House yesterday, President Media Unit said.The President briefed the envoys about the middle-path foreign policy of Sri Lanka and said that the country extends a hand of friendship to all the countries in the world. ?Today Sri Lanka has only friends in the world,? he said.President Sirisena, referring to close bilateral relations with Sri Lanka and the countries represented by the new envoys expressed confidence that they would strive to further strengthen bilateral friendship and cooperation in many areas including trade, investment and tourism.The President also recalled the close cooperation between Sri Lanka and those countries at the international forums and thanked them for the support extended to Sri Lanka. He said Sri Lanka too would extend every possible assistance to those countries.While the new Ambassador of Iran is based in Colombo, others will function as non-resident Ambassadors/High Commissioner with residence in New Delhi.Those who presented credentials were:01 Ambassador of Chile Andres Barbe02 Cyprus High Commissioner Dementrious Theophylactou03  Ambassador of Czech Republic Milan Hovorka04 Danish Ambassador Peter Taksoe-Jensen05 Guatemala Ambassador Georges de La Rochew du Renzet Plihal06  Republic of d?Ivery Coast Ambassador Sainy Tiemele07 Cambodian Ambassador Pichkun Panha08 Iran Ambassador Mohammed Zaeri Amirani.
President Maithripala Sirisena said that it is not the policy of the government to treat one district more and the other districts less in the country?s development process. He made these remarks participating in a ceremony to declare open the newly built Bank of Ceylon Welikanda branch, today.The President further said that the special development project titled ?Pibidemu Polonnaruwa? (Awakening of Polonnaruwa) implemented to rectify the injustice happened to the people in the Polonnaruwa district in the development process in the past.He also said that even though some sections of the society expressed their views as there is shortage of subsidized fertilizer in the country, when he personally looked into the matter, the actual situation was that there were some issues with the distribution of fertilizer and he has given instructions to the relevant officials to correct those erroneous situations.President Maithripala Sirisena said that the government will take every possible step to uplift the farming community through expanding market opportunities and providing water and fertilizer required for them at the correct time.The President recalled that still there are Rice stocks in the warehouses which are not suitable for human consumption and those stocks were imported by the then government and he said that as a result of these kinds of steps by the previous government the farming community of this country suffered.Those rice stocks were not sold to the Sathosa and those were sold to the private sector, the President said that adding investigation in this regard is being processed. President Sirisena said he rejected a proposal presented to the Cabinet for importing of maize and said that he would never allow to take any decision harmful to the economy of the farming community.The Bank of Ceylon branch opened in Welikanda by expanding the bank facilities to the farming community in Welikanda area is equipped with every facility. The President, who opened the branch of the bank by unveiling of the plaque, accepted the credit deposit of the first customer of the bank.Later, distributing school equipments to the students in Polonnaruwa District under the program of ?Pibidemu Polonnaruwa? was held with the President?s participation. Also, office equipments were delivered to strengthen the farmer organizations while grass cutting machines were distributed to the farmers for the management of the community participation irrigation systems.Meanwhile, a branch of the Bank of Ceylon in Aralaganwila, which was built to expand the banking facilities of the farming community in the area, was declared open by the President. This will facilitate the people of 30 villages in Aralaganwila area. The President accepted the credit deposits of the first three customers of the bank.
The Government of Sri Lanka, in manifestation of its firm commitment to uphold, promote and protect the human rights of all, and denounce sexual violence, has decided to endorse the Declaration of Commitment to End Sexual Violence in Conflict,Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.At an event held at the United Nations on 25th September 2013 in New York, 122 Member States of the United Nations endorsed the Declaration of Commitment to End Sexual Violence in Conflict.Today, this Declaration is endorsed by 155 Member States.Sri Lanka thereby recognizes that the prevention of sexual violence in conflict is critical to peace, security and sustainable development; reiterates its commitment to ending impunity for such crimes; acknowledges the rights and dignity of victims and survivors; and resolves to support global efforts to collectively address these crimes.
The Indian National Fishworkers? Forum (NFF) has appealed to the Indian Union Ministry of External Affairs to ensure the early release of Indian fishermen who are languishing in Sri Lankan jails before Pongal festival and their boats.S. Jaishankar, Secretary of Ministry of External Affairs, is on an official trip to Sri Lanka to discuss various issues concerning the relationship of both the countries. In a letter to Mr. Jaishankar, the forum also pointed out that fishermen from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are incarcerated and their boats confiscated.?Right now, there are 114 fishermen languishing in various prisons of Sri Lanka and 75 boats were confiscated. Apart from venturing for fishing to earn their livelihood, they have not committed any criminal act. Their boats are deteriorating since no maintenance was undertaken?, said the forum chairperson M. Elango.The forum also requested Mr. Jaishankar to impress upon the Sri Lankan Government to release the fishermen and their boats before the Pongal.The forum also expressed hope that the Secretary would be able to announce a proper date for the fourth round of dialogue of the fishermen between both countries after holding discussion with Sri Lankan authorities. (The Hindu)
The Colombo Additional Magistrate Mohamed Mihiran today ordered that the CCTV footage of the abduction of a youth at Dematatoga be submitted to the Moratuwaa University for a technical report.The Additional Magistrate ordered that video footage also  of a a press conference given by MP Hirunika Premachandra who is implicated in the case be submitted to the University.Regarding a plea to release the defender jeep used in the abduction, the court ordered that request be made on the next case date of January 26.The counsel appearing for the MP pleaded that order be issued that MP Udaya Gammanpila should be summoned to courts as he has made a defamatory statement in connection of this incident,  but the request was overruled.
Indian Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar arrived at the Bandaranaike International Airport this morning.He is expected to meet Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe during his visit. According to reports the foreign secretary is to pave the way for the India-Sri Lanka Joint Commission (ISLJC) meeting, scheduled to be held in Colombo next month.
Members of the Ceylon Bank Employees Union branch of the People?s Bank on Tuesday protested outside its headquarters in Colombo Fort urging the government to refrain from privatising the bank.  The union alleged that attempts were being made to outsource certain divisions of the bank with the aim of preparing the groundwork towards the privatisation of the giant state-owned commercial bank.      Last year on December 15th the union had protested against the transfer of the Data System (DS) of the bank to Sri Lanka Telecom. Union officials allege that, in the latest move, the Disaster Recovery (DR) department of the bank is planned to be sold to Dialog Axiata. (Raj)
Ninteen trade unions including Government Medical Officials , Sri Lanka Administrative services,Engineers trade union leaders signed today an agreement pledging that they would protect the state services.Some of their demands are to securing the grant of pensions to new recruiting government employees, ensuring protection of salary policies and to crate a National policy to govern international treaties on equipment and services.The precedent of Government Medical Officials Dr Anurudha Padeniya said that they would over come the barriers and fight to earn their demands as well as declare the protection of state services.He claimed that the government is discouraging qualified university students to enter state service by cutting down the pension scheme for new generation of state workers as well as hiring less educated personal under a new agreements with foreign countries.     The collective of trade unions signed the agreement under Joint Committee of Executive Officers in All Island Services
The Public Representations Committee on Constitutional Reforms has invited people to write in with their views on a new Constitution before February 10, 2016.The notice was published in newspapers this week.  It said the public is advised to send written representations under different headings. There are twenty such headings. They are Nature of the State; Form of Government (Presidential/Parliamentary); Basic Structure of the Constitution; Citizenship, Religion, Fundamental Rights and Duties, Language Rights, Individual and Group Rights, Directive Principles on State Policy; Legislature (Unicameral/Bicameral); Supremacy of Constitution or Parliament; Separation of Powers; Independence of the Judiciary and the Courts Structure; Constitutional Court; and Power Sharing Devolution and Local Government.The rest are Sharing Power at the Centre; Constitutional Council and Independent Commissions; Public Service; Electoral Reforms; Judicial Review of Legislation; Powers of President under Parliamentary System; Election of President under Parliamentary System; Public Security; Finance; and any other matters.Contributions can be sent by post to Chairman, Public Representations Committee on Constitutional Reforms, Visumpaya, Colombo 2. The fax number is (011) 2328780. The email address is constitutionalreforms@gmail.com.
Indian Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar will have talks with Sri Lankan officials and Lankan leaders on January 12, officials told Express. Arriving from the Maldives in the morning, Jaishankar will immediately go into meetings with the Lankan Foreign Secretary, Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister.The Tamil parties have expressed a wish to meet him but it is still not certain if a slot can be found for them given the tight schedule for what is essentially a one day visit.Sources said that the main purpose of the visit is to pave the way for the India-Sri Lanka Joint Commission (ISLJC) meeting here in early February, which will be attended by Indian External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj. February 5th and 6th  is the tentative date for the ISLJC meeting.Swaraj is expected to visit Jaffna also, where she is likely to hand over the Indian-built Duraiappah Stadium, work on which is being done at a feverish pace to meet the deadline.This will be Jaishankar?s first stand-alone visit as Foreign Secretary, and is officially described as a routine one. But political circles attach importance to the visit given the fact that the Lankan parliament converted itself into a Constitutional Assembly on Saturday, to draft a new constitution for the country. Among other aims, the new constitution is meant to have a new devolution package to promote ethnic reconciliation.India is very keen to see that the question of devolution is addressed adequately and that the India-inspired 13 th. Constitutional Amendment is built upon. India sees devolution as the key to ethnic reconciliation.Jaishankar may also urge the Lankan government to get going on the Sampur 500 MW joint venture power project which has been in the doldrums since it was initiated in 2006. Indian railway projects here have also come under a cloud, with the Sirisena government appointing a  committee to inquire into some complaints and that panel coming up with an adverse report. However, no action has been taken on the report yet, because the Minister of Transport thinks that the Indian railway construction company, IRCON International, cannot be faulted. But the  controversy has somewhat jeopardized IRCON?s prospects of getting new contracts. (The New Indian Express)
A celebration to mark the 150 years  of the first newspaper of Sri Lanka ?Gnanartha Pradeepaya?, was held yesterday (Jan. 11) at the Cardinal?s House in Colombo under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena.The paper was founded by the Catholic Priest Peter Ilari and John Fernando on 7th of June, 1866, with the aim of obtaining donations for the maintenance of the orphanages.The President was presented a special memento by Archbishop of Colombo Dr. Malcolm Ranjith. The anniversary issue of the paper was also presented to the President at this occasion.
Sri Lanka's new Constitution-making is not a secret process and open to all ideas, a senior minister said today as government set up a special office for public to express their views on the Constitutional framework."This is not a secret process. Anybody can make their views known on the process," said Lakshman Kiriella, leader of the House and minister of Highways and Higher Education.Kiriella's remarks came two days after Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe moved a resolution at a special session to set up a Constitutional Assembly to formulate a new Constitution. The opposition backing former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has protested the move to form a Constitutional Assembly, saying it violated the parliament's standing orders.Several Buddhist monks have raised concerns that the new Constitution seeks to dilute the foremost position given to the majority religion Buddhism and the unitary character of the country will be replaced with a federal set up.  "There is not a single clause yet for the new Constitution. We are only talking about the process. These are attempts to mislead based on false statements," Kiriella said."We will not allow any dilution of the position of Buddhism and we will not agree to any devolution beyond the thirteenth amendment," said Dilan Perera, a minister backing President Maithripala Sirisena.  The government today opened a special office for public to make their proposals to the constitution."We will make every effort to adopt the new Constitution within this year," said Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe.  Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena recently underlined the need for constitutional reforms aimed at achieving reconciliation with the minority Tamil community and preventing another ethnic war."We need a Constitution that suits the needs of the 21st century and make sure that all communities live in harmony," Sirisena, who completed one year in office on Saturday, said in his address to the parliament.  Sri Lankan troops in 2009 defeated the LTTE which was fighting for an independent state for minority ethnic Tamils.At least 40,000 Tamil civilians may have been killed in the final months of the civil war, according to a UN report.  The Sri Lankan government has promised that it will investigate alleged war crime allegations against government troops and Tamil Tiger rebels. (PTI)
UNP MP Hirunika Premachandra and eight other suspects are to appear in Colombo Magistrate Courts today over the recent abduction of a youth in Dematagoda.Premachandra was arrested for alleged being involved in the abduction on Saturday, and was later released on bail.The youth who was abducted has alleged that Premachandra threatened him after the abduction on December 21 evening. He was released later that night.
The Dubai Police have busted a gang of five Sri Lankans who stand accused of stealing millions of dirhams worth of valuables from villas in Dubai before attempting to flee the country.On Monday, the Dubai Police Operations Room received information about a theft in a villa in Dubai's Al Barsha area. The police rushed to the scene and were told by the homeowner, an Emirati, that when he came home at 9.30pm he found the villa's doors broken. Watches worth Dh250,000 and Dh100,000 in cash were stolen.Police investigation revealed that the modus operandi was the same as in eight other villas in the area. The police arrested four of the suspects as they tried to leave the country through Dubai International Airport. Huge amount of dirhams and Sri Lankan rupees, as well as gold and watches were retrieved. All four men confessed during interrogation, as did the fifth suspect who was arrested in Dubai later.The men confessed that they often stole from vacant villas. They would ring the doorbell and if they did not receive any response, one suspect would climb the wall and open the door to three others, while the fifth would stand watch outside.The fifth suspect was also found to be violating the UAE residence laws. All five men have been referred to the Dubai Public Prosecution. (Khaleej Times)
Diplomatic and political pressure by India is believed to have stalled Sri Lankan Air Force (SLAF) plans to procure JF-17 Thunder fighters from Pakistan, which the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex (PAC) developed jointly with China's Chengdu Aircraft Corporation (CAC), IHS Jane reported.Official sources in New Delhi said this influence had prevented Pakistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif from closing a deal for 10-12 JF-17s for around USD400 million during his visit to Colombo from 4 to 7 January.Key Points
The Finance Ministry has suspended implementing the proposed increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) and Nation Building Tax (NBT) in the 2016 budget until the necessary legislation is gazetted and passed in parliament, ministry officials said on Wednesday.Under the budget proposals, VAT was to come under two categories ? manufacturing at 8 per cent and services at 8-12 per cent. NBT was to go up to 4 per cent from 2 per cent. ? ENDS -
The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, Hugo Swire will undertake an official visit to Sri Lanka from 14-16 January, Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.Minister Swire is expected to call on President Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Leader of the Opposition R. Sampanthan and former President Kumaratunga during his visit.  He will also meet Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera, Minister of Law and Order & Southern Development Sagala Ratnayake and several other ministers and deputy ministers.Minister Swire will participate in Thai Pongal celebrations in Jaffna on 15th January together with President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. He will also meet the Chief Minister of the Northern Provincial Council, C.V. Wigneswaran.    Minister Swire will attend the Galle Literary Festival on 16th January 2016, prior to his departure.  Minister Swire last visited Sri Lanka in January 2015.
Indian Foreign Secretary Dr S Jaishankar said India highly appreciates the statesman-like approach of President Maithripala Sirisena. ?Not only Sri Lanka, but we in New Delhi also highly appreciate the speech made by Your Excellency in Parliament last week,? he said when he paid a courtesy call on the President at the Presidential Secretariat today.Dr Jayashankar conveyed congratulations from Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the President?s One Year in Office. He said that the President?s approach towards national reconciliation is highly appreciative.President conveyed his greetings to the Indian Premier and said that he has great regards for Shri Modi, with whom he has a personnel bond as well. ?After our close rapport during my visit to New Delhi and Mr Modi?s visit to Sri Lanka, we also met at international gatherings such as the UN, CHOGM and Climate Summit in Paris,? President Sirisena said.He said he was looking forward to meet Indian Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj when she visits Sri Lanka next month to attend the Indo-Sri Lanka Joint Meeting in Colombo.He thanked India for the assistance provided in areas such as economic development, rehabilitation and resettlement, railways, power and expansion of Palali Airport and Kankasanthurai Port. The President said frequent visits by leaders are helpful not only to strengthen cooperation but also to dispel some media disinformation.
Medical students of government universities organized a protest march demanding the immediate closure of South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe today (Jan13).A similar protest march was held in Jaffna this morning by Jaffna University students.According to reports the Director Board of Sri Jayewardene Hospital have decided to permit students of SAITM to receive clinical training at the hospital.
Tourists seeking an on-arrival visa at the Bandaranaike International Airport can now pay the visa fee in five popular foreign currencies instead of only in US dollars earlier, the Ministry of Tourism Development and Christian Affairs announced on Wednesday.It didn?t say what the other currencies were but the most frequently used currencies in hotels and other places permitted to accept foreign cash are the Sterling Pound, Euro, Swiss Franc among others.  ?There were numerous requests from tourists to enable them to pay the visa fee in their currencies as paying in US dollars was a hassle since they had to exchange their currencies to carry out the payment. This gave somewhat of a negative first impression to tourists at the entry point to the country. We took note of these requests and brought it to the attention of the Controller of Immigration and Emigration, who has now provided a solution,? said Minister of Tourism Development John Amaratunga. - ENDS -
The world?s largest video-sharing website YouTube has announced the launch of its localised versions for Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan.?This launch provides Internet users in those countries with a more tailored YouTube experience to find high-quality local content so they can be informed, entertained, educated and inspired by content for their own culture and language,? Google Communications and Public Affairs Manager Zeffri Yusof was quoted by the Tribune  in a press release on Tuesday.The Internet giant and parent company of YouTube said users visiting the website?s homepage from these countries would be able to see videos and playlists that are popular in their countries in their local languages ? that is Pakistanis will be able to search for YouTube videos in Urdu for the first time.With over a billion monthly users worldwide, YouTube is the world?s largest online video-sharing community, which is available in 88 countries locally, as well as in 76 global languages, including Sinhalese, Nepali, Urdu, the statement said.This launch, said the company, will also provide more people from Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka the chance to share their own stories and videos with the rest of the world. ?We also hope that this will pave the way for the work of local creators, personalities and musicians to shine on the world?s largest and most vibrant video community.?The localised version aims to promote country-specific content, but the users can access a vast amount of knowledge-based and educational videos available on the website ? Khan Academy lectures, TEDx Talks and National Geographic documentaries to name a few.
The Medical faculty students attached to the University of Jaffna today took the street to protest against the move by the government to allow students from private medical university to carry out their practicals in the state hospitals.The protesters alleged that these private medical universities in the country opened  intakes twice in a year with low Advanced Level (AL) qualifications as basic qualification to enter. Students marched from the faculty premises towards the Jaffna Teaching Hospital building.While questioning the standard of the degrees offered by these universities, the students urged the govern  ment to take immediate steps to safeguard the medical education standard in the country for the betterment of the people.
Former UPFA MP Duminda Silva was released on bail by the Colombo Magistrate's Court over three cases filed by the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.Silva was released on a cash bail of Rs 10,000 and a surety of Rs 1 million in each case.The Commission filed three cases against Silva last month for allegedly failing to declare assets in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Health Minister Faeqa bint Saeed Al Saleh expressed the intention to boost the bilateral cooperation through the exchange of Sri Lankan medical expertise and field visits by consultant physicians specialized in micro medical disciplines.She was quoted as syaing Bahrain media  when she received the Ambassador of the Socialist Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka to the Kingdom of Bahrain, A S U Mendis yesterday .The minister welcomed the recently-appointed ambassador, praising the advanced level of bilateral relations between Bahrain and Sri Lanka and wishing him success in further developing and consolidating the friendship and cooperation ties between the two countries and peoples.The ambassador commended the historic bilateral ties, expressing desire to extend new horizons of fruitful cooperation in the health sector between both sides.(Bahrain News Agency)
In what appears to be a low-key, business-like visit to Sri Lanka, Indian Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar on Tuesday had talks with his Lankan counterpart, Chitranganee Wagiswara, on the entire gamut of bilateral relations.He also met the Minister for Development Strategies and International Trade Malik Samarawickrama; called on Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe in the evening; and had dinner with Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera. On Wednesday, prior to his departure for New Delhi, Jaishankar will call on President Maithripala Sirisena and former President Chandrika Kumaratunga, a key supporter of the Sirisena government who has also been a long standing friend of India.This is Jaishankar?s first stand-alone visit to Lanka as Foreign Secretary. According to officials, one of the main purposes of the visit is to prepare the ground for the India-Sri Lanka Joint Commission meeting to be held here on February 5 and 6. It is significant that Jaishankar met the Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Samarwickrama as India and Lanka had agreed to fast track negotiations on the Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement to be able to sign it by the middle of this year.Faced with all-round opposition to the earlier proposal to go in for a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA), India proposed the ETCA instead. This struck a responsive chord in PM Wickremesinghe. In response to Lankan fears about the influx of Indian services personnel under CEPA, the ETCA restricts the entry of Indian services professions to only two fields.India has also been concerned about the lack of enthusiasm in Lankan governments about starting the 500 MW coal power project in Sampur. The state-owned Indian railway construction company IRCON too has come under scrutiny by the Wickremesinghe government and a government panel had recently come out with an adverse report. (The New Indian Express)
The Central Bank (CB) has urged the police to impound passports of former Entrust director Chanuka Ratwatte and other current directors in view of a current investigation in the company, CB Governor Arjuna Mahendran said on Wednesday.  Earlier some depositors had been informed by the authorities that these passports had been impounded.  However Mr. Mahendran told Times Online that the case pertaining to the failure of Entrust Securities Ltd, a primary dealer in the money markets, has been handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) with a recommendation that the passports of Mr. Ratwatte and other current directors be impounding pending the completion of the probe.  Mr. Ratwatte, a son of former Cabinet Minister, the late Anuruddha Ratwatte, is said to have been the power behind the company. He resigned from the board last October.  Last week Entrust was seized by the banking regulator after it was unable to show enough assets to settle liabilities. ? (Duruthu)
Opposition Tamilleader R Sampanthan yesterday appealed to Mahinda Rajapaksa to back the new Constitution-making process, saying the former president's support is important.  "I wish to make a special appeal to him to place the country's interests before anything else," he said.Addressing parliament today on the proposal to convert the House to a Constitutional Assembly, Sampanthan said Rajapaksa was a leader of national stature and his support was important in the constitution making process. He asked all political parties including Rajapaksa to contribute positively to the new Constitution making.The Tamil leader said, at the end of this process, the country will have a Constitution built with consensus not only within the parliament but outside of it among people. "That will be the day that all people will have a sense of belonging of a new Sri Lanka," Sampanthan said.The Rajapaksa backers within the opposition group is expected to resist the process with some of them saying the current government had no public mandate to change the 1978 Constitution which is currently in force.They have already proposed amendments to the proposed structure to draft the new Constitution. Their support would depend on the government willingness to accommodate them. The new Constitution needs two third approval, the support of 150 in the current parliament of 225 members. It will also have to be approved at a national referendum.Rajapaksa was dethroned from his 10-year long rule by his former aide Maithripala Sirisena after a bitter presidential poll on January 9. (PTI)
The support of Sri Lanka's main Tamil party is crucial to the adoption of a new Constitution, a senior minister said today. "In 1972 and 1978, the Tamil parties did not take part in the Constitution-making process. Their support this time will be very important," Minister of Higher Education and Leader of the House of Parliament Lakshman Kiriella said in Kandy.The Tamil minority has largely stayed away from efforts by the two Sinhala majority parties in formulating previous Constitutions. They raised black flags against the 1972 Constitution.Tamils are the official opposition in the current Parliament, boosting efforts to achieve national reconciliation. TNA leader R Sampanthan made a passionate plea in Parliament early this week for an inclusive process.Cabinet spokesman and Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne, meanwhile, said the Constitution making Parliamentary select committee's proposal would be approved in Parliament on January 26. "We will be accommodating all the opposition-moved amendments," Senaratne said.The government last Saturday moved a resolution in a special session of Parliament to convert the whole Parliament into a Constitutional Assembly.  However the opposition parties have pointed out technical issues opposing the move. This will be Sri Lanka's first attempt of changing the Constitution in the last 37 years. (PTI)
Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom (UK) have very close bilateral military relations in past and a resumption of this cooperation and collaboration would be very welcome, says Hugo Swire, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of the UK on the opening day of a visit to Sri Lanka..Mr. Swire made this statement at a media briefing organized by the Council for Business with Britain at the Kingsbury Colombo on Thursday.He said, ?Historically bilateral military relations have been very close between Sri Lanka and the UK and the resumption of cooperation and collaboration in this field is very welcome by the armed forces of both our countries?.He also mentioned at the event that the most significant developments Sri Lanka have made were the commitments at the Human Rights Council last September. Those commitments take meaningful steps towards truth and accountability after the long conflict here and is the key to bringing about lasting reconciliation. It is important because reconciliation will be the bedrock on which Sri Lanka?s future economic success will be built. (Raj)
The Holy Father has accepted the resignation presented by Msgr. Joseph Rayappu, from the pastoral care of the Diocese of Mannar, in accordance with canon 401 ? 1 of the Code of Canon Law and has appointed Msgr. Joseph Kingsley Swampillai retired bishop of Trincopmalee, as Apostolic Administrator of the diocese of Mannar, Sri Lanka.Msgr. Joseph Swampillai was born on 9 Dec 1936 and ordained a priest on 20 Dec 1961.  On 17 March 1983 he was appointed the Bishop of Trincomalee- Batticaloa diocese.  In July 2012 he was appointed the bishop of Trincomalee when the new diocese of Batticaloa was formed.  At the age of 78 his resignation was accepted from the pastoral care of the diocese of Trincomalee.  He was a bishop for 32 years.  The Diocese of Mannar was erected in 1981 which covers an area of 3,998 sq. kilometers.  It has 34 parishes. (Vatican Radio)
A clash broke out between two groups of fishermen in the afternoon at the Chilaw Fisheries Harbour.The situation occurred following a discussion which was being chaired by Minister Mahinda Amaraweera.
Foreign Office Minister for Asia  Hugo Swire, who is on an official visit to Sri Lanka addressed the Council for Business with Britain alongside Sri Lanka?s Deputy Minister of State Enterprise Development, Eran Wickramaratne today.Following is the text of the  speech delivered by Mr Swire to the Council .Honourable Deputy Minister Wickramaratne, Mr Shirendra Lawrence, Chairman of the Council for Business with Britain; Ladies and Gentlemen.It is an honour to address such a distinguished audience and I thank you for your warm welcome.I am delighted to be back in Sri Lanka. And I want to take this opportunity to share my thoughts on the exciting prospects for this country ? and for the political and economic ties between Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom.What a difference a year makes! Since the election of President Sirisena last January, there has been a distinct and welcome change of atmosphere in the bilateral relationship between our two countries.I was delighted to be the first overseas Minister to visit Sri Lanka following the Presidential elections. And our ties have gone from strength to strength ? most notably when President Sirisena met Her Majesty The Queen and Prime Minister David Cameron in London in March.And I think this improvement in relations is largely down to the positive developments we have seen in Sri Lanka over this remarkable year.For me, perhaps the most significant of these developments were the commitments Sri Lanka made at the Human Rights Council in September. Those commitments to take meaningful steps towards truth and accountability after the long conflict here are key to bringing about lasting reconciliation.And that is important because it is reconciliation that will, I believe, be the bedrock on which Sri Lanka?s future economic success will be built.That is why, in recognition of these commitments ? and following talks between Prime Minister David Cameron and President Sirisena at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Malta in December ? we were delighted to announce the provision of ?6.6 million pounds of UK Government funding to support peace and reconciliation in Sri Lanka.Incidentally, let me also mention another significant announcement coming out of that meeting ? the appointment of a non-Resident UK Defence Adviser. Historically, our bilateral military relations have been very close and I know that the resumption of cooperation and collaboration in this field is very welcome by the armed forces of both our countries.I will be going to the North tomorrow with the President and Sri Lankan Prime Minister Wickremesinghe to participate in National Thai Pongal celebrations. Celebrations that have even more powerful meaning at this time of new beginnings for Sri Lanka.And while there, I also look forward to meeting resettled families, members of civil society and religious leaders to hear directly from them about the progress in reconciliation and economic development.One vital aspect of reconciliation and economic development ? and a growing area of cooperation between the UK and Sri Lanka ? is tackling corruption. This was, of course, a key election promise of President Sirisena. And answering his request for international assistance, the UK is providing anti-corruption training and anti-bribery expertise to the Sri Lankan authorities.Why are we doing that? Because the elimination of corruption improves business confidence, not only for the existing business community, but it also helps make Sri Lanka a destination of choice for new foreign direct investment.That is good for the UK, as well as for Sri Lanka ? because building our prosperity through increasing exports and investment; opening markets; ensuring access to resources; and promoting sustainable global growth is a key element of the UK Government?s long term economic plan ? and a cornerstone our foreign policy.The latest figures released in December show the UK economy continued to grow strongly, with GDP in Q3 increasing 2.1% on a year ago. The unemployment rate fell to 5.2%, the lowest rate in nearly ten years, while average wages and productivity measured by hour worked continued to grow.However, both our countries cannot afford to be complacent.We are only two weeks into the New Year, and already we?ve had worrying news about stock market falls around the world, the slowdown in China, deep problems in Brazil and in Russia.Commodity prices have fallen very significantly.Oil, which was over $120 a barrel in 2012, dipped below $35 earlier this week.That is good for consumers and business customers both in Britain and Sri Lanka, but bad news for the oil and gas industry, worrying for the creditors who have lent to it, and a massive problem for the countries that depend on it.And all of it adds to the volatility and sense of uncertainty in the world.However, through its actions, the government of Sri Lanka has sent a very clear message to the international community across the world that it is open for business from all corners of the globe. Attracting Foreign Direct Investment is I know a top priority for the Government as it seeks to strengthen the Sri Lankan economy and put Sri Lanka in a stronger position to deal with the global challenges both our countries face.And I am pleased to report that the past year has been a very busy one for the High Commission Trade and Investment team. With their support, British companies are now competing for around ?1 billion of business across a range of sectors. We are hopeful that many will be successful in a transparent and accountable competitive bidding process.I was also pleased that the Lord Mayor of the City of London visited in May. Many of you may have met him while he was here, promoting the City of London as a hub of global financial excellence ? and fostering closer links with the Colombo Stock Exchange.The UK also continues to be among the top 10 investors in Sri Lanka and I am delighted that around 150 companies in Sri Lanka with a UK affiliation currently operate here. I hope and expect that that those numbers will continue to rise.On exports, the UK is Sri Lanka?s third largest market, with exports in 2014 growing a remarkable 36%, to well over ?1 billion. While British exports to Sri Lanka were only ?165 million in the same year, we have made reducing that trade gap a priority ? and the latest figures show UK exports to Sri Lanka increased by nearly 50% last year.But while this is all good progress, we are not resting on our laurels. Next week, for example, the High Commission is hosting a ?Food is GREAT? event ? highlighting the excellence of British food and drink.And I hope you have secured your tickets for the Marco Pierre White Gala dinner, to taste the finest produce from all over the UK.Sadly I shall not be there but I am sure the High Commissioner will enjoy telling me what I missed.After that, the team here will be hosting a multi-sectoral trade mission in February to further bolster our bilateral trading links.I will end there, and take some questions in a moment, but to summarise: it is clear from the steps that Sri Lanka?s government has taken so far that it is serious about delivering on the commitments it has made on accountability and reconciliation. Addressing problems from the past will create the right conditions for greater prosperity in the future.It is equally clear that the administration is serious about tackling corruption and attracting the investment it needs to deliver long-term, sustainable growth.The British Government is proud to help in any way we can. And I am pleased that British businesses are contributing to Sri Lanka?s success. I am confident that when I next visit I will hear about more British companies winning business and doing business hereI am in no doubt that this will be thanks, in no small part, to the valuable work of the Council for Business with Britain. Shirendra, thank you for all the help and support you give to the High Commission in its trade promotion activities.By working together, the Council and the British and Sri Lankan governments are making great strides in bringing security and prosperity to the people of Sri Lanka, of the United Kingdom and of the wider world.So I am of the firm view that the prospects for our shared future are indeed bright. And all of us here can help turn those prospects into reality.
President Maithripala Sirisena today said that the final objective of all investments of the government is to build a better society for the citizens of the country."The uncivilized and indecent behaviors in the society should not be allowed to be a problem for the future of the children, he added. The government is committed to build the future of the children of the country in a safer way, he said.The President made these remarks at the annual ?Kepakaru? scholarship award ceremony held today at the Mahindarama Temple in Ethul Kotte. The scholarships are provided by Sri Lanka Nippon Educational and Cultural Center.The President stated that the contribution of such private institutions is strength when the government is committed to strengthen the free education in the country. ?Everybody should get together to perform their responsibilities for the country and the people, without waiting till the government does everything?, he said.The Kepakaru scholarships program which was commenced with the aim of improving the Japan ? Sri Lanka friendship, has been in function since 1986. It was founded by the Chief Sanga Nayaka of Sri Jayawardenapura of the Kalyani Samagri Maha Sanga Council of Kotte, General Secretary of the Nippon Educational and Cultural Center Ven. Meegasthenne Chandrasiri Thero.President Sirisena extended his thanks for the assistance provided by the government of Japan for the development of every field in Sri Lanka. He handed over 34 letters of the scholarship, symbolizing the provision of 1800 scholarship for the children of low income families.Mahanayake of Kotte Kalyani Damma Maha Sanga Sabha Dr. Iththepane Dammalankara Thero, the General Secretary of the Nipon Educational and Cultural Center Ven. Meegasthenne Chandrasiri Thero, State Minister P. Radhakrishnan and the Deputy Minister Harsha de Silva also participated in this ceremony.
The government today strongly condemned the terrorist attack which took place in Jakarta today morning,Foreign Affairs ministry said in a statement."The Government of Sri Lanka extends Condolences to the families of the victims who died in the incident. Sri Lanka reiterates its strong commitment to work with the international community including Indonesia to eradicate the scourge of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," the statement said.
Former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa today appeared before the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) investigating large-scale corruption to record a statement over the investigations into the irregularities of Rakna Lanka company.
The cabinet today approved to relocate the Manning fish market in Colombo Fort to Peliyagoda in view of keeping with the  combined development zone under the Colombo City Development Plan (2008-2020) prepared by the Urban Development Authority.Hence, the old St. John Fish Market has been re-established in Peliyagoda area and the Vegetable and Fruit Stock Trade Centre is also to be relocated in Peliyagoda are and the present Manning Market premises is to be used for provision of public transportation facilities.Accordingly, the proposal made by Hon.PataliChampikaRanawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development, to relocate the said Manning Market in a land of 25 acres owned by the Urban Development Authority in Peliyagoda area at an estimated cost of Rs. 4 billion, was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
Visiting Minister of State for Asia at the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office Hugo Swire has said he  has been struck by how far the country has come since the change of government and called on Sri Lanka to act on a promised probe into alleged human rights abuses before the next meeting of United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC)."The United Kingdom has much to offer Sri Lanka and we are determined to help, not least through our Prime Minister?s commitment to a further ?6.6 million of support over the next 3 years. We want to see all Sri Lankans reaping the benefits of sustainable prosperity, underpinned by a stable and secure country" a foreign office statement quoted Swire as saying.The full statement is as follows :The visit is the latest in a series of high level engagements between the governments of the United Kingdom and Sri Lanka over the last year. Relations between the two countries have been reinvigorated since the election of President Sirisena in January 2015.Mr Swire will welcome the Sri Lankan government?s commitment to reconciliation and strengthening democracy since the end of its civil war, as well as progress made so far. His discussions will focus on further developing cooperation between the two countries and on UK support for Sri Lankan efforts to tackle the legacy of the conflict.During his three-day visit, Mr Swire will meet President Maithripela Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera and a number of other Ministers.Minister of State for Asia, Hugo Swire, said:I am delighted to be visiting Sri Lanka. It is almost a year since my last visit and I am struck by how far Sri Lanka has come in that short time. Today, I see a country in which many Sri Lankans, of all ethnicities, can look forward to a brighter future than was imaginable just twelve months ago.Sri Lanka made important commitments when it co-sponsored a United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution in Geneva last October, which we hope to see implemented ahead of the June 2016 UNHRC. I have been encouraged and impressed by President Sirisena?s government, his commitment to tackle the legacy of Sri Lanka?s conflict ? which has cast a shadow for too many years ? and his keenness to restore democracy, underpinned by a stable, secure and integrated country.The United Kingdom has much to offer Sri Lanka and we are determined to help, not least through our Prime Minister?s commitment to a further ?6.6 million of support over the next 3 years. We want to see all Sri Lankans reaping the benefits of sustainable prosperity, underpinned by a stable and secure country.The Minister will also visit Jaffna where he will meet the Chief Minister of the Northern Provincial Council Justice Wigneswaran and be a guest of the PM at the National Thai Pongal celebrations.Mr Swire will meet families living on land cleared from mines thanks to HALO Trust ? a British demining charity ? who have now removed 200,000 mines to make land safe for resettling displaced people.He will finish his visit to Sri Lanka in Galle where he will attend the Literary Festival.
Paddy stocks stored at the Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport are being moved today ( Jan 14).Five thousand (5000) metric tonnes of paddy is currently stored at the airport storage facilitiy. Chairman of the Board, M.B. Dissanayake was quoted as saying  a kilogramme of red raw rice will be sold at Rs.42. The decision to store paddy at the Mattala Airport came under much scrutiny by a number of factions over the recent past.
Families of eight Indian fishermen, who are currently stranded in Colombo awaiting repatriation from Sri Lanka, have urged the State and Central governments to take steps to expedite their return, the Hindu reported.The family members, who have petitioned the district authorities, are planning to observe a fast in Nagapattinam on Thursday to press the demand. According to the family members, the eight fishermen reportedly observed a fast on Tuesday in Colombo, protesting the delay over repatriation to India even after a court in Mullaitheevu released them on January 4.According to information available here, Renganathan (29) of Akkaraipettai, who was among those observed fast, has been admitted to a government hospital in Colombo. The fishermen, Anandavel (50), Chithiravel (28), Renganathan, Vinoth (28), Balamurugan (35), Kannan (27), Lakshmanan (40) and Ramanathan, from Akkarapettai in Nagapattinam district had ventured into the sea for fishing on a mechanised boat from Nagapattinam on January 2.Nagapattinam Collector S. Palanisamy told The Hindu that there was no case registered against the fishermen. All information about them has been sent to the officials concerned in Sri Lanka. All of them were safe and would be brought back soon, he said.
Ceylon Workers Congress (CWC) General Secretary Arumugam Thondaman has formed a 15 member committee to submit proposals for a new constitution.Addressing the media yesterday at the Ceylon Workers Congress head office, Former Minister P.P Devaraj said the committee is comprised of members attached to the CWC, political and legal representatives and academics.Devaraj said the committee will discuss and formulate proposals to ensure that all the people are given equal recognition in terms of the constitution adding that the committee will look into political problems faced by the Indian origin Tamils and take measures to rectify all the issues pertaining to the Tamil community.
Britain?s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Hugo Swire has arrived at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) today. Minister Swire is expected to call on President Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Leader of the Opposition R. Sampanthan and former President Kumaratunga during his visit.He will also meet Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera, Minister of Law and Order & Southern Development Sagala Ratnayake and several other ministers and deputy ministers.Minister Swire will participate in Thai Pongal celebrations in Jaffna on 15th January 2016 together with President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.He will also meet the Chief Minister of the Northern Provincial Council, C.V. Wigneswaran.  Minister Swire will attend the Galle Literary Festival on 16th January 2016, prior to his departure. Minister Swire last visited Sri Lanka in January 2015.According to the Foreign & Commonwealth Office,the visit is the latest in a series of high level engagements between the governments of the United Kingdom and Sri Lanka over the last year. Relations between the two countries have been reinvigorated since the election of President Sirisena in January 2015.Mr Swire will welcome the Sri Lankan government?s commitment to reconciliation and strengthening democracy since the end of its civil war, as well as progress made so far. His discussions will focus on further developing cooperation between the two countries and on UK support for Sri Lankan efforts to tackle the legacy of the conflict.During his three-day visit, Mr Swire will meet President Maithripela Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera and a number of other Ministers."Sri Lanka made important commitments when it co-sponsored a United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution in Geneva last October, which we hope to see implemented ahead of the June 2016 UNHRC. I have been encouraged and impressed by President Sirisena?s government, his commitment to tackle the legacy of Sri Lanka?s conflict ? which has cast a shadow for too many years ? and his keenness to restore democracy, underpinned by a stable, secure and integrated country." he said.
The first round of Sri Lanka- Japan Policy Dialogue at Senior Official Level of the two Foreign Ministries was held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Colombo on 12th January 2016, Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.The convening of the Policy Dialogue was proposed in the Joint Declaration on a ?Comprehensive Partnership? between Sri Lanka and Japan, issued during the visit of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to Japan in October 2015. The Dialogue focused on promotion of investment and trade, collaboration in the national development plan and cooperation in the national reconciliation and peace-building process in Sri Lanka.Both sides also had discussions on regional issues as well as global challenges affecting the two countries. Under the framework of the Policy Dialogue it was decided to hold three specialized Dialogues: a Dialogue on Maritime Security, Safety and Oceanic Issues, to be chaired by the Ministry of Defense; an Economic Cooperation Policy Dialogue & Consultation on National Development Cooperation, to be chaired by the Ministry of National Policies and Economic Affairs and an Economic Policy Dialogue, to be chaired by the Ministry of Development Strategies & International Trade in the months of January, February and May of this year, respectively.The next round of the Policy Dialogue at the Senior Official Level of the two Foreign Ministries will be held in Tokyo, in early 2017.  The Policy Dialogue was co-chaired by Mr. O.L. Ameer Ajwad, Director General of the East Asia & Pacific Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka and Mr. Kazuya Nashida, Director-General of the Southeast and Southwest Asian Affairs Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan.  The Japan side was also represented by H.E. Mr. Kenichi Suganuma, Ambassador of Japan to Sri Lanka, Ms. Asako Okai, Deputy Head of Mission of the Japanese Embassy in Sri Lanka, Mr. Takashi Ariyoshi, Director, Southwest Asia Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, Mr. Shinichi Murata, Official, Southwest Asia Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, Mr. Yasuhito Tamada, Director, International Economic Affairs Division, Global ICT Strategy Bureau, Mr. Kiyoshi Amada, Chief Representative of the JICA Sri Lanka Office and other Senior Officials.On the Sri Lanka side, Ms. Neelamani Aberatne, Addl. Secretary, Ministry of Special Assignments, Mrs. Nilanthi Sugathadasa, Addl. Secretary of the Ministry of Skills Development & Vocational Training, Mrs. Shirani Weerakoon, Addl. Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism Development & Christian Religious Affairs, Mr. M. Dewasurendra, Addl. Secretary of the Ministry of Higher Education & Highways, Mr. J.M. Thilakarathna, Addl. Secretary of the Ministry of Transport & Civil Aviation and other Senior Officials of several Ministries participated in the Policy Dialogue.
Indian Foreign Secretary Dr S Jaishankar told the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) leader R.Sampanthan here on Wednesday, that India would like Sri Lanka to build on what has already been achieved in the area of devolution of power when it drafts its new constitution.Jaishankar was alluding to the devolution package contained in the 13 th. Constitutional Amendment which was inspired by the India-Sri Lanka Accord of 1987.Sampanthan, who had breakfast with Jaishankar, told Express that  that during the ?free and frank? exchange of views on the recent political developments in Lanka, the Indian Foreign Secretary recalled the steps already taken in the direction of devolving power to the provinces, and suggested that Lanka should build on this rather than start from scratch.Jaishankar was keen to know about the government?s bid to re-write the Sri Lankan constitution and the process being adopted to turn the present parliament into a Constitutional Assembly for that purpose. ?It was a useful conversation,? Sampanthan said. (The New Indian Express)
(AFP) Sri Lanka's prime minister on Friday promised greater political power to the island's Tamil minority under a new constitution aimed at preventing a return to ethnic war and healing the wounds of the past.Speaking in the Tamil heartland of Jaffna, Ranil Wickremesinghe marked the Hindu festival of Pongal with a pledge to devolve power and demilitarise a former war zone -- two of the minority's key demands. "We are ready to devolve power (to minority Tamils) and protect democracy," Wickremesinghe said in a nationally televised ceremony.The premier also promised to "take action" against both state forces and Tamil rebels accused of war crimes in the final stages of the island's 37-year-old separatist war, in line with pledges to the UN Human Rights Council last year."Who has violated (humanitarian law), it could the security forces or the LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam)," he said. "We will take action accordingly." Sri Lanka's year-old government has begun drafting a new constitution aimed at resolving the drawn-out ethnic conflict which ended in 2009 and claimed 100,000 lives, the premier said.The issue has been fraught, however, with hardline members of the Sinhalese majority opposing a federal system that would ensure more political power for minority Tamils. Some minorities fear a "unitary" constitution would see them lose out while moderate Tamils who want to remain in a single union have pressed for greater power in areas where they are in the majority."The Constitutional Assembly will discuss with all, including (Tamil-dominated) provincial councils to have a new constitution," Wickremesinghe said. "We will do that in a transparent manner."The prime minister also promised Friday to do more to help families of victims resolve the issue of dozens of Tamils who have been imprisoned for years without charge. Other measures announced include recruiting hundreds of Tamils to the police and military to reduce the mistrust between Jaffna residents and the security establishment, and further support for families of war victims."There are lists of missing people and I am afraid most of them may not be among the living," Wickremesinghe said.President Maithripala Sirisena, who was elected in January last year partly on the back of Tamil votes, was due to travel to Jaffna Friday, but was unable to make it due to "unavoidable" reasons, his office said. The regime of former president Mahinda Rajapakse faced repeated UN censure over his failure to investigate allegations that at least 40,000 Tamil civilians were killed by troops under his command while crushing the rebels in 2009.
The UN Resident Coordinator and UNDP Resident Representative in Sri Lanka Subinay Nandy met with President Maithripala Sirisena as he concluded his assignment in Sri Lanka on 14 January, after a 4 year and 8 month term, UN Sri Lanka said.Last evening, Mr. Nandy called on President Sirisena for an exit meeting. President Sirisena noting key priorities of the Government, reiterated the need to work together in addressing such challenges. During the meeting, Mr. Nandy reaffirmed the commitment of the United Nations to the Government of Sri Lanka in continuing to progressively work together for the benefit of the Sri Lankan people.In February, Mr. Nandy, will take up his new post as Head of Asia-Pacific Division of the Department of Political Affairs in UN New York Headquarters.
Veteran actor Chandrasiri Kodithuwakku passed away today morning at Gampaha General Hospital. He was 67 years old. He was admitted to hospital for a long time due to the kidney tretament.  Kodithuwakku's portrayal of the character ?Abilin? in the Teledrama ?Kopi Kade," was widely acclaimed by the Srilankan audience.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe today said that the new government has taken  substantial steps to bring all citizens  under  one identity as Sri Lankans.He was addressing a ceremony to mark the Thaipongal festival in Jaffna. Former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and Britain?s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Hugo Swire were also presented.He said that the military presence in the province would be reduced gradually ? I have spoken to the military commander, he assured me to hand over some 4600 acres of land taken by the military to the rightful owners back,?Chief Minister of Northern Province C.V. Wigneswaran questioned while the government need to promote the rule of law at the National and International level and ensure equal access to justice for all., how we are continuing with our draconian PTA. ?Does it ensure equal access to justice for all??Replying to the accusation levelled by the Chief Minister of Northern Province that the draconian law of Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) is still effective, Premier Wickremesinghe said since the PTA is no longer required the government will replace the current law with a new keeping with the international standards.
The National Peace Council (NPC) said today that the recent move by President Maithripala Sirisena to pardon a former member of the LTTE Sivarajah Jeneevan who had been convicted and imprisoned for having attempted to assassinate him in 2005 when he was the then Minister of the Mahaweli Development gave  expression to his ideals of healing Sri Lanka?s post war wounds when he utilized his presidential powers."This symbolic and healing gesture coincided with the first year anniversary of his becoming President.Jenivan was arrested on April 23, 2006 and sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment by Polonnaruwa High Court over nine years later on July 3, 2015.   The National Peace Council is of the view that the State has the right to charge those who indulge in crimes irrespective of how long the time since the commission of the crime.However, it is not necessary that persons who are accused should be remanded for an indefinite period because they are alleged to have committed a crime unless they are a continuing threat to others.  We note in this context that there has been great controversy for the past several years over the continued detention without charge or without trial of over two hundred alleged LTTE members.  We urge that they be either charged and subjected to the legal process, or released without further delay."NPC believes that these are not only political issues, but are also human issues of the heart and of people?s lives where there is no closure and families cannot move on.  The anguish of family members of disappeared persons and those held in custody for several years has become a common sight mainly in the former conflict affected areas and elsewhere.  The government needs to take meaningful steps to ensure these cases are concluded expeditiously.  This would enable those long term detainees and their families, and those of missing persons, to rebuild their lives and ensure that good governance is meaningful to them. " the statement said.
A army soldier was killed in a train accident in Elephant Pass when he tried to cross the road through a level crossing, police said. Palai police said the body was handed over to the Kilinochchi general hospital and further investigation into death under way.
Tight security measures have been put in place in Jaffna today with the arrival of Prime Minister and other hosts to participate in the National Thaipongal festival.Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe, Former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and Britain?s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Hugo Swire arrived in Jaffna this morning to take part in various ceremonies.
President Maithripala Sirisena said in his Thaipongal message that the Pongal is a festive occasion that signifies the everlasting relationship between human beings and nature."This festival is celebrated in grandiose manner because it signifies the people's gratitude to mother earth that nurtures them. It is an occasion to display devotion to the most powerful element in nature - the sun," a statement issued by the President to mark Thaipongal read.As this festival is very close to the hearts of our fellow people, just like a boiling milk pot that overflows on this day, let the love of humans towards each other pour out and may the illuminated lamps lighten up to dispel darkness and lead the way to genuine co-existence, he said.Following is the full text of the message:Thaipongal is a festive occasion that signifies the everlasting relationship between human beings and nature. This festival is celebrated in grandiose manner because it signifies the people?s gratitude to the mother earth that nurture them and also it is an occasion to display devotion to the most powerful element in nature ? The sun.Since the time of human evolution to date, the agricultural farming community has been celebrating festive occasions such as this in spirit of unity, mutual respect and observing common social values. Celebration of such festivals related to nature made a tremendous contribution to make this world a better place to live in. Our responsibility in the present should be to carry forward the historical heritage that treats the nature sacredly and supports the social cohesion and co-existence as well as social progress.The national identity and unblemished cultural heritage are very well reflected in festivals such as Thaipongal. The greatness of the festival is that though this is celebrated for thousands of years it has not undergone any distortion or transformation and continues in its pristine form.As this festival is very close to the hearts of our fellow people, just like a boiling milk pot that overflows on this day, let the love of humans towards each other pour out and may the illuminated lamps lighten up to dispel darkness and lead the way to genuine co-existence.I wish you all a Happy Thaipongal!Maithripala SirisenaJanuary 14, 2016Captured here are images taken among those in Jaffna as they get ready to celebrate Thaipongal
Hindus around the world celebrate the festival of Thai Pongal today.Thai Pongal is celebrated on the first day of the month Thai of the Tamil calendar. The day normally falls between 12th and 15th of the month of January in the Christian calendar. Thus, Thai is the first month of the Tamil Almanac, and Pongal is a dish of sweet concoction of rice, moong dal, jaggery and milk.This festival is celebrated by one and all as it is non-relevance to any particular religious faith. The whole Tamil population of the world celebrate it without any differences. Therefore it is widely known as "Tamil Thai Pongal" or the "Festival of the Tamils".The Tamil festival of Thai Pongal is a thanks giving ceremony in which the farmers celebrate the event to thank the spirits of nature spirit, the Sun and the farm animals for their assistance in providing a successful harvest. Thai Pongal is especially devoted to offer gratitude to cattle. The farmers pay great attention to the animals which have ploughed the fields and drawn the carts throughout the year. To show his gratitude for this invaluable service the animals are bathed, their horns are painted in red, blue, yellow and green. Pooja is offered to them and Pongal is given in plenty.The rest of the people celebrate the festival to pay their thanks to the farmers for the production of food. Overall, it is a festival to encourage social cohesiveness and unite people by bringing them together in a common function. There are many songs about Thai Pongal and there is much Tamil literature about it.Thai Pongal is an occasion for family re-unions and get-together. Old enmities, personal animosities and rivalries are forgotten. Estrangements are healed and reconciliation effected.
In a goodwill gesture ahead of the Pongal festival, Sri Lanka today decided to release 104 Indian fishermen arrested by the country?s navy for allegedly poaching in the country?s territorial waters. In view of the Thai Pongal festival, Sri Lanka will release all the Indian fishermen tomorrow, the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources said.According to the Ministry, 104 Indian fishermen will be released and the letter of recommendation for their release has been sent to the President by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.However, Secretary to the Ministry of Fisheries WMMR Adikari said that concerns have been raised over eight fishermen, who were charged for damaging fishing vessels belonging to Lankan fishermen.No Sri Lankans are currently jailed in India for crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line, Adikari said, adding that however, India has agreed to release any fishermen arrested over the next three days.The fishermen issue continues to be a major irritant in the Indo-Lanka ties.Sri Lanka accuses Indian fishermen of straying into its territorial waters, while the latter maintain they are only fishing in their traditional areas, especially around Katchatheevu, an islet ceded to Colombo in 1974. ( PTI)
With one more batch of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees returning from Tamil Nadu to their motherland in a few days, the Sri Lankan government is keen on getting assistance of the Indian government to enable quicker voluntary repatriation of the remaining refugees.?We would like the Indian government to help us with regard to housing and road development in places of resettlement,? V.Sivagnanasothy, according to Secretary, Ministry of Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and Hindu Religious Affairs in the Sri Lankan government.On Tuesday, 41 refugees including 26 women, will reach Colombo from Chennai and Madurai. A senior official in Chennai says: ?Of late, on an average, 60 persons are returning to Sri Lanka every month compared to 30 or 40 persons in the past.?To facilitate the repatriation, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees provides free air tickets; reintegration allowance of US$ 75 per person; transport allowance US$ 19 per person and monitory non-food grant of US$ 75 per family. The baggage allowance has been increased from 40 kg to 60 kg per person.A former official of the Rehabilitation Department in the Tamil Nadu government says that if ferry services are resumed early between Talaimannar in the Northern Province and Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, the number of refugees going back will be much more. Except for a few statements made in the last one year on the resumption of ferry services, there appears to be no tangible progress.Pointing out that about 1.37 lakh houses are required to be built in the Northern and Eastern Provinces of Sri Lanka, Mr. Sivagnanasothy says the Ministry has prepared a ?comprehensive project? for providing livelihood assistance to those refugees who return home. Under the project, the food component envisages the provision of food for six months. In this regard, the World Food Programme has been approached. ?In case our project does not get covered under the Food Programme, we will provide dry ration for three months from our budgetary allocation,? the official says.Of 46,000 houses to be built with the Indian government?s assistance in the two provinces, 43,800 houses were completed as on December 31, 2015 including 15,878 houses in 2015. The remaining 2,200 houses are expected to be covered in ?the next few months,? says the Indian High Commission in Colombo.Mr. Sivagnanasothy said that his Ministry will award contracts shortly for a project of building 65,000 houses in the two provinces. While 11,000 houses will be built in the first year, the next three years will see the construction of 18,000 houses each year.Refugees? strength: no clarity ?As for the number of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in Tamil Nadu, there appears to be lack of clarity. While the Tamil Nadu government and the Sri Lankan authorities say there are over 1,00,000 refugees are living in the State including non-camp refugees, the annual report of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for 2014-2015 states that as on December 31, 2014, there were about 65,000 refugees living in 110 camps including one in Odisha and 15,000 refugees living outside the camps. (The Hindu)
Fifty five Indian fishermen have been released from prison in Sri Lanka out of a total of 104 which the island nation had decided to free as a goodwill gesture ahead of Pongal festival."The other fishermen will be produced in court at Mannar and Trincomalee on January 18," Mannar district fishermen's association president Manoharan told PTI over phone. To a question, he said he was not aware of the exact date when they would be brought back to India. The 55 Indian fishermen are now lodged in a marriage hall in Jaffna.The Sri Lankan government, in a goodwill gesture ahead of Pongal festival, had yesterday decided to release 104 Indian fishermen arrested by the island nation's navy for allegedly poaching in the country's territorial waters.The Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources there had said that the letter of recommendation for their release has been sent to the President by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.Yesterday, the Tamil Nadu government in a release in Chennai, had said that of the 104 fishermen hailing from Nagappatinam, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram, 55 were released by Sri Lankan courts and handed over to Indian consulate officials in Jaffna.It had said that the other fishermen would be released over the next two days, it said.  The release also said that Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had issued orders to government authorities to take all steps to safely bring back the fishermen to the state. The fishermen issue continues to be a major irritant in Indo-Lanka ties.Sri Lanka accuses Indian fishermen of straying into its territorial waters, while the latter maintain they are only fishing in their traditional areas, especially around Katchatheevu, an islet ceded to Colombo in 1974. (PTI)
A broader international commitment would have ensured the success of an effort to end an over two-decade-long war between the Sri Lankan military and Tamil separatists, Erik Solheim, a former peace negotiator, said at the Atlantic Council on January 14.In the absence of such a commitment, the Sri Lankan military continued a fierce offensive against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) fighters as ceasefire agreements between the warring sides collapsed. In May of 2009, the government announced that it had defeated the separatists, bringing the curtain down on a 26-year war. More than 100,000 people are believed to have lost their lives, at least 40,000 of them in the war?s final days.India, Japan, and Norway offered diplomatic and logistical support during the effort to broker peace between the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE. But, Solheim said, ?a broader and stronger coalition of outside international players was needed.?Solheim, a Norwegian politician and former chief negotiator in the Sri Lankan peace process, participated in a panel discussion hosted by the Atlantic Council?s South Asia Center. Richard L. Armitage, who has served as Deputy Secretary of State in the George W. Bush administration; and Mark Salter, author of To End a Civil War, which recounts the mediation efforts in Sri Lanka, were also part of the panel. Bharath Gopalaswamy, Director of the Atlantic Council?s South Asia Center moderated the discussion.Until its full disbandment in 2009, the LTTE was a highly effective militant organization that specialized in using terror tactics to execute its secessionist operations against the Sri Lankan government. Solheim led a team of negotiators in 2002 to oversee ceasefire talks that broke down in 2006.In dealing with such an entrenched, polarized, and drawn-out conflict, Solheim said patience was paramount from the first day on the ground: ?Only if you can be patient and accept that there will be ups and downs then you can potentially have some impact on the path to peace.?Solheim identified specific challenges surrounding the diplomatic mission?namely, the dearth of information his team had on dealing with senior officials in both the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE. ?We needed a bigger team to tap into Tamil-Sinhala relationships and more importantly, we needed to gain insight into the unique leadership of the Tamil Tigers,? he said. ?At the end of the day it was about this.?A broader coalition of international players would have also helped this effort, he added.Armitage said constant antagonism and negligence from senior Sri Lankan and LTTE leaders prevented the peace process from seriously progressing. ?The lesson from Sri Lanka for all of us is that you can?t want peace more than the participant parties want peace,? he said.Further, Armitage discussed the importance of engaging all parties in diplomatic discussions despite their combat tactics. Salter agreed. ?For all the political rhetoric against engaging terrorist groups in diplomatic discussion, the reality on the ground...for this particular conflict was that was precisely what was required,? said Salter. In the end, the Norwegian-sponsored peace mission depended on bipartisan unity between the government and the LTTE. In order to achieve this unity, more legitimate engagement with the LTTE leadership needed to occur, he noted.While Solheim, Armitage, and Salter agreed on maintaining contextual priorities throughout the Sri Lankan peace mediation, they all understood crosscutting political engagement and proper expertise as cornerstones for civil conflict resolution.?The idea of political settlement...is about applying international pressure, diplomatic expertise, and foreign assistance,? said Salter.(Atlantic Council)
The National Fish Workers Forum (NFF) today thanked the Sri Lanka government for its goodwill gesture ahead of Pongal festival to release all 104 Indian fishermen arrested by the island nation's Navy.Chairman of NFWF M Ilango said the Sri Lankan government's announcement yesterday to set free all fishermen from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry incarcerated there for allegedly poaching in their territorial waters "has come as a happy development.""The NFF thanks the Sri Lankan president and the other authorities in the country for the gesture," he said in a release here.  Ilango also requested that all vessels impounded allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy be released.The Ministry of Fisheries and Acquatic Resources had said that in view of the Thai Pongal festival, Sri Lanka would release all the Indian fishermen today.  It had said the letter of recommendation for their release has been sent to the President by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.(PTI)
The green light has been given to the delayed Colombo Port City project, the Sri Lankan ambassador to China confirmed on Friday.  A financial hub connecting South Asia, Southeast Asia and the Middle East is expected to be set up in the Colombo Port City, said Karunasena Kodituwakku, Sri Lankan ambassador to China in an exclusive interview with China Daily.The $1.4 billion urban complex project will cover 233 hectares adjoining the Port of Colombo. The deal was initially signed between the Sri Lankan government and the China Communications Construction Co in November 2013.  However, it was suspended by the Sri Lankan government early in 2015 after Maithripala Sirisena became the country's president.A greater environmental impact assessment to allay public concern was needed, which was "not the fault of the Chinese company", reiterated Kodituwakku, the ambassador.The "incremental environmental impact" by the project is "minimal/negligible at the reclamation site and the coastal zone to the North and South of the site," said an environmental impact assessment report released by the Sri Lankan authorities in December. "The project will create employment, create tax income, and create indirect opportunity for other services. ... Everybody will benefit," said the Ambassador.Colombo Port City will become "a high-end urban complex in South Asia concentrating industries, including finance, tourism, logistics and information technology," and the whole project will create more than 80,000 jobs, said China's Ministry of Commerce in November 2013. (China daily)
President Maithripala Sirisena today said that there is a competition among the international community help the development of Sri Lanka. ?This is due to the better governance and the middle path which Sri Lanka takes in foreign relations.?Attention of every country is being paid on Sri Lanka today due to the correct foreign policy of the government?, he said. He stated he has been invited for an official visit to Germany. ?This is the first time that a leader of Sri Lanka has been invited for an official visit in Germany after 43 years?, he said.He made these remarks ceremonially commencing of the constructions of the roundabout in the Polonnaruwa Town, inaugurating the road development of the Polonnaruwa District, under the ?Pibidemu Polonnaruwa? five years district development program.He also stated that he has received more invitations from developed countries for state visits. ?All these invitations came not on the requests by me, but because of the friendship of the leaders of those countries?, the President further stated.?We will start a lot of development programs with the assistance of these friendly countries by making 2016 an year of a transformational development in Sri Lanka?, he said.He furher said that despite local criticism, the entire world is blessing the program of the new government of Sri Lanka. "what we should do today is not to waste time by giving answers to the criticisms of the political opportunists but to fulfill the responsibility, undertook for the country and the people,"?The development should not be stored in any district. It is essential to maintain in a fair and balanced manner. It is the politicians responsibility to extend the hands of the development to everybody?, the President further stated.Minister Lakshaman Kiriella, State Minister Dilan Perera, Chief Minister of the North-Central Province Peshala Jayarathne, Member of Parliament Siripala Gamlath and Nalaka Kolonne also participated in this occasion.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe on Sunday assured Lanka?s Sinhalese majority, that the country will not be turned into a federal state under a new constitution.?There is no need to break the unitary status of the country,? Wickremesinghe said in a special statement to clear doubts sown in the minds of the people by the Joint Opposition Group (JOG) associated with former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and a section of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) which is part of his government.The Sinhalese, who are 70 percent of Lanka?s population, want the country to be a unitary state because they see federalism as a stepping stone to secession. The Tamil minority, on the other contrary, is clamoring for a federal set up.An emotionally charged Prime Minister said that ?as a Buddhist, Sinhalese and a Sri Lankan, he will not break the country.? He would keep the Sixth Amendment of the existing constitution which bans secessionism.However, Wickremesinghe was non-committal on the status of Buddhism which has been enjoying ?a foremost place? in the country. He said he would give his views on the matter after returning from Davos in Switzerland in the third week of this month.The Sinhalese opposition?s doubts stemmed from the fact that the resolution on the new constitution which he moved in parliament on January 9, did not mention the need to retain the unitary character of the constitution and to give the foremost place to Buddhism.The resolution mentioned, among the aims of a new constitution, the abolition of the Executive Presidency and the doing away of preferential votes in the electoral system. It also mentioned as a goal, constitutional provisions for promoting national reconciliation.Wickremesinghe assured his opponents that the new constitution would be based on the views of the people gathered by the 24-member Public Representation Committee. The social media, which the youth use, will be looked into to know the views of the youth. The Prime Minister further said that he welcomes amendments to the resolution. And at any rate, the constitution will have to be passed by two thirds of the 225-member  parliament followed by a referendum. (New Indian Express)
Sri Lanka's prime minister Sunday announced officials would use social media to seek public opinion on a proposed new constitution aimed at preventing a return to ethnic war.Ranil Wickremesinghe said Sri Lanka will use social media to help draft a new statute to devolve more powers to minority Tamils and ensure unity after decades of war."Sri Lanka could be the first country to get views expressed on social media (to contribute to) drafting a new constitution," he said. "We want to seek the view and opinions of young people. Participate in this process."Sites such as Facebook and Twitter played a key role in supporting Wickremesinghe's election in August as well as during the January 2015 presidential election at which he supported Maithripala Sirisena.Since coming to power, the new government has set up free wi-fi zones in many public places to encourage the use of web-based services.The government is opening a new office in Colombo Monday to start receiving written proposals from the public for the new constitution. Wickremesinghe travelled to the former wartorn zone of Jaffna in the north Friday to pledge to devolve political power to minority Tamils.He has also promised to prosecute both state forces and Tamil rebels accused of war crimes in the final stages of the island's 37-year-old separatist war, in line with pledges to the UN Human Rights Council last year.Sri Lanka's year-old government has begun drafting a new constitution aimed at resolving the drawn-out ethnic conflict which ended in 2009 and claimed 100,000 lives. The issue has been fraught, however, with hardline members of the Sinhalese majority opposing a federal system that would ensure more political power for minority Tamils.Some minorities fear a "unitary" constitution would see them lose out while moderate Tamils who want to remain in a single union have pressed for greater power in areas where they are in the majority. (AFP)
Three fishermen from Nagapattinam district were arrested by Sri Lankan Naval personnel off Nedutheevu in the island nation for allegedly crossing the International Martime Boundary Line.?The three fishermen of Kottaipattinam in Nagapattiman district were arrested by Sri Lankan Navy personnel near Neduntheevu early this morning,? Subburaj, Joint director of fisheries department, Nagapattinam, said. Their boat was also seized. The three were taken to Kankesanturai and would be produced in a court for hearing on Monday, he said.(PTI)

